[Claire] Previously...
[William] Ben's not dead.
That's why his body
is not in his grave.
There is something amiss here.
I am not
the Ninth Earl of Ellesmere.
I've found myself
wishing I could renounce
the damn title altogether.
Well. you could marry me
and give it to our firstborn.
[Young Ian]
Are you Denzell Hunter?
Your neighbor said
you were a physician.
- I am.
- This is William Ransom.
- He's been injured.
- [Denzell] Rachel!
These men need
our urgent assistance.
My wife is in the city.
I promised I'd return.
I can find a safe place for you
to wait out the battle.
unless you want to fight.
I'm Aaron Whitaker.
Allow my wife to help yours.
May I introduce to you
William Buccleigh MacKenzie.
Your reputation precedes you.
As does yours.
A man being called
by God is one thing.
A man who thinks he canna die
is quite another.
You have men arming up
right under your nose.
You're too high-minded to make
an example out of them?
Well. I'm not.
[soft music plays]
♪ ♪
[bees buzzing]
- Mmm. Ambrosia.
- [both chuckle]
Mmm.
Anything you'd like
to tell the bees?
They didn't have much
to offer me
when I told them that
everyone had left us... again.
[children laughing.
Jamie chuckles]
Well. no' everyone.
- [Buck] Come here.
- [Jamie] Hmm.
[laughter]
He promised to fight
wi' me at King's Mountain.
You told him about it?
He's one of you. Claire.
I don't see the purpose
in keeping it from him.
[laughter continues]
- [Buck breathing heavily]
- You're it.
He's been "it" more times
than anyone.
Did you tell him that...
we killed his father?
No.
Nor did I tell him
you killed his mother.
Good.
Let's keep that
to ourselves. shall we?
- [laughter continues]
- A tree or a wee mouse?
Huh?
Ah. fine.
Thank you.
[twigs snapping. rustling]
[tense music plays]
Go to the house. children.
Is it a bear?
I dinna ken.
Go now.
Go!
♪ ♪
Something's wrong.
[person] Don't shoot!
Buck!
He was watching the house.
- You ken him?
- Aye. aye. I do.
I dinna think he's here to harm
us. are you. Mr. Whitaker?
No. sir.
I'm not.
Why are ye lurkin' about
in the woods?
You know a man named
Cunningham. Mr. Fraser?
The captain?
Aye.
He's coming for you.
[dramatic music plays]
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over the sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
♪ Billow and breeze ♪
♪ Islands and seas ♪
♪ Mountains of rain ♪
♪ And sun ♪
♪ All that was good ♪
♪ All that was fair ♪
♪ All that was me ♪
♪ Is gone ♪
♪ Sing me a song ♪
♪ Of a lass that is gone ♪
♪ Say. could that lass ♪
♪ Be I? ♪
♪ Merry of soul ♪
♪ She sailed on a day ♪
♪ Over ♪
♪ The sea ♪
♪ To Skye ♪
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
Uh. me and some of my men were
out hunting with the Cherokee.
While we was hunting.
some white men
hailed us and started talking
to the Cherokee
about joining a Loyalist militia
this Captain Cunningham's
putting together.
And one of them let it be known
that this Cunningham
would soon be in charge
of Fraser's Ridge.
Go on.
They camped the night with us.
My men and I. we daren't sleep.
So... I listened.
They said there's a Redcoat
officer named Ferguson.
Been raising Loyalist militias.
arresting rebels.
I know about him.
Well. Cunningham means
to attack you
and take you to him...
...so he can hang you for show.
When?
They said in a few days.
Cunningham's waiting
on a fellow named Partland.
who's coming from
the settlement of Ninety-Six
with a militia of his own
to help him.
He means to overpower you.
♪ ♪
You've done me a service.
Mr. Whitaker.
I'll remember it.
The way I see it...
I owe you for what your wife
did for my family.
But if they find out
I warned you...
They won't find out.
And you dinnae owe me.
But I am grateful just the same.
♪ ♪
[baby fussing]
- [sighs]
- [baby grunts softly]
[knocks on door]
Am I interrupting?
No. Come in.
[baby coughs]
[Amaranthus] How does it look?
It looks very lovely.
[booming in distance.
baby fussing]
It is only the French ships.
[Brianna] I know.
But Lord John said
battle appears imminent. and...
without me knowing
exactly where my husband is...
[booming and fussing continue]
I really think I must feed him.
That's fine. Lady Grey.
We can resume this afternoon.
[baby fussing. crying]
She is lovely. isn't she?
Yes. I suppose she is.
[Brianna]
Sit down. Keep me company.
[booming continues]
You know
you don't have to do this.
Everyone would understand
if you put it off
until your husband returns.
Honestly. it's helping me
keep my mind off of it.
[chuckles softly]
Can I ask you something?
And it's about Jamie.
so you can say no.
Were you able to spend
any time with him...
after you met?
There was no occasion for that.
Actually. that's not true.
There was one occasion
when he helped me look
for... someone.
Was that Jane?
Fanny told me about her.
I understand she meant
a great deal to you.
She did.
More than I ever told her.
So. yes.
to answer your question.
your father helped me.
and I was grateful.
But that was the end of it.
[Brianna]
I do know how you feel.
I didn't know he was my father
till I was nineteen.
And I didn't meet him
until a few years after that.
Already had a father I loved...
idolized. really.
Though by then.
he had died. which...
...made it worse somehow.
I didn't know.
Everyone had lied to me
all my life...
including my mother.
And I just lost sense
of who I was.
I was so angry at her that...
that I told her she was
the one who should have died.
[scoffs]
[sighs]
Sound familiar?
[dramatic music plays]
How did you overcome it?
I got to know our father.
♪ ♪
That bloody snake.
Aye. That he is.
He willna attack me here.
where I have the advantage.
He's canny.
He'll have heard how it went
with Richard Brown.
He'll wait for me
to be somewhere
where he has the upper hand.
So the-the trading post. then?
Too crowded.
Well. he won't worry
about keeping it quiet.
It'll be Lodge.
It's the perfect place
for a surprise attack.
Why?
I willna be armed. No one will.
It's not allowed.
He'll be armed.
He won't care
about what's allowed.
Aye. he will care.
Cunningham's a Mason
of the 25th degree.
Takes his oath seriously.
No.
He willna start a fight inside.
It'll be after.
That's what I would do
if I were him.
So then don't go to Lodge.
[Buck] Aye.
Why no' kill him now?
He doesna ken ye've been warned.
and that gives you
the advantage.
I need to ken
who else is wi' him.
Not just Loyalists.
who among my tenants would
attack me on my own land?
I have to go.
With planning.
I can handle Cunningham.
but the problem is the militia
coming from Ninety-Six.
I have to cut it off.
Well. what about your militia?
The men you signed.
They're untrained. unorganized.
spread across the county.
No.
There's only one way
I can see to stop it.
I have to make a deal...
with the devil.
♪ ♪
Deliver it in person. Josiah.
Aye. I'll ride all night.
♪ ♪
[Roger]
"Dearest Bree. I'm sorry.
I didn't mean to be here.
but I have the strongest feeling
that here is where
I'm supposed to be.
It wasn't quite
'whom shall I send. '
but something close.
And so was my answer.
That's Isaiah.
if you don't know...
chapter six. verse eight.
'Here I am.
Send me.'
I heard that call. too.
How can I sit idly by
watching men
much younger than myself
prepare for a battle
I know they will lose?"
[chatter. laughter]
"I think my father must
have heard the same call
when he joined the RAF.
I wonder if he was
as scared as I am.
God willing. I'll see you soon.
God willing.
I'll see Jemmy and Mandy. too.
I love you all.
For now and always.
I am your husband. Roger."
[indistinct chatter]
[solemn music plays]
♪ ♪
Oh. Lord. help me do
what You want me to do.
whatever that is.
But in the name of Christ.
Your Son.
let me live through it...
because if You don't. You'll
have my wife to answer to.
[person shouts.
drumming in distance]
[indistinct chatter]
♪ ♪
[sighs]
[chatter and drumming fade]
[solemn music plays]
♪ ♪
It's gonna be all right.
Look.
I'm scared too. see?
But just remember.
God is with us.
[speaking French]
Come on.
♪ ♪
[booming in distance]
[sighs]
[booming continues]
[knock at door]
♪ ♪
- [booming continues]
- That isn't the ships?
No. it isn't.
[boom in distance]
[sighs]
I'm afraid the battle has begun.
They're attacking
from the south.
through the marshes.
which is not something
I personally would do.
but styles of command vary.
[boom in distance]
The only road into town
is closed.
If your husband hasn't returned
by now. it may be a while.
What was it that took him
out of town?
[clears throat] It was. uh...
[boom in distance]
He was at the Continental camp.
- Why in God's name?
- He's a minister.
He was ministering
to some of the men.
Then he'll be kept well back
from the front lines.
He'll be safe.
You know as well as I do
that being kept
away from the front lines
doesn't keep anyone safe.
Oh. God.
God. I hate this.
[sighs] Where is Lord John?
At headquarters.
trying to remember
what a lieutenant colonel
is supposed to do.
He's been retired for so long.
He wanted you to have this.
[booming continues]
He's quite certain the Rebels
will not breach the city.
But if they should.
and only if...
we are to hang that in a window
so they know
you're on their side.
He'll deny all knowledge
of your radical affiliations.
of course.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
[booming continues.
indistinct shouting]
♪ ♪
[breathing heavily]
[groaning]
♪ ♪
Tell Mary I love her.
[explosion]
I always did...
...long before she knew.
[gunfire]
Tell her.
Please. tell her.
I'll tell her.
[breathing heavily]
What's your name?
Winslow.
Private Winslow Carver.
[somber music plays]
♪ ♪
You're not alone. Winslow.
Can you hear me?
You're not alone.
God is with you.
And I'm with you. too.
I won't leave you.
♪ ♪
[soldiers shouting]
[gunshots]
[booming. cannonballs whirring]
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
[soldier whimpering]
- [groans in pain]
- [person] You're all right.
I'm here to help.
Doctor.
- I need a doctor!
- Down there.
♪ ♪
[Denzell] Bring him here.
Lay him down.
♪ ♪
He's been shot through
the neck. I think.
[gunshots]
[Denzell] Can thee hear me?
- Can thee breathe?
- [grunts softly]
Don't worry.
I'm going to help thee.
[explosion in distance]
He can't die. Doctor.
I told him that
it was gonna be all right.
I told him God was with us.
- He is.
- [soldier groans]
[person coughing]
What am I doing?
[groaning in pain]
[speaking French]
Pray?
Yes. of course.
Lord God. please heal my friend.
Christophe.
[grunts in pain]
♪ ♪
Christophe.
Is-is he...
He's still breathing.
Thankfully. it missed
the trachea and major arteries.
[soldiers shouting]
♪ ♪
We'd hardly begun.
[boom in distance]
I'll go back.
Thank you.
♪ ♪
[booming. gunshots]
I'll help you!
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
[ominous music plays]
♪ ♪
I've sent Jemmy and Mandy
over to Lizzie's.
Cunningham willna harm you
and the bairns.
It's only me he wants.
Well...
I know where the guns are.
just in case.
How do I look?
Like you'd scare
the devil himself.
I don't want to scare him.
Claire.
Tonight I need
the devil on my side.
No word from Josiah. then?
No.
Don't go.
I have to go. Claire.
Dinna fash.
We have a plan.
Plans fail.
That's why they call them plans.
[scoffs]
There's even a saying...
written by a Scot. no less.
"The best-laid schemes o' mice
an' men gang aft agley."
There was a play about it
in my time.
And things go very agley.
Cunningham doesna want me dead.
only captured.
And he doesna ken I know.
My Ardsmuir men will be
wi' me at Lodge.
And I have Buck and Kezzie
watching for the militia
from Ninety-Six.
But if Josiah should fail
and the militia comes in...
Then what?
[soft music plays]
♪ ♪
Then I will fight. Claire.
tooth and nail.
And every man wi' me.
♪ ♪
It won't be today. will it?
I dinna think so. Claire.
♪ ♪
But I willna lie to you.
I think it will be
an evil night.
♪ ♪
[all] Mac Dubh.
[curious music plays]
♪ ♪
[breathes deeply]
Worshipful Master.
Shall we begin?
♪ ♪
[sighs]
[bottle thuds on table]
Let us invoke the assistance
of the great architect
of the universe
in all our undertakings.
May our labors.
thus begun in order.
be conducted in peace
and closed in harmony.
[all] So mote it be.
I declare this Lodge
duly open for the purposes
of Freemasonry.
Is there any business?
Aye.
Brother Crombie.
[Crombie clears throat]
My nearest neighbor.
Senga Argyle.
is a recent widow
and none too spry.
She doesna have kin.
and as an elderly woman.
lacks the means
to maintain her land.
Poor woman canna care
for her late husband's stock.
and I can only offer her
so much help.
busy as I am
with the trading post.
I canna neglect
the business for hours on end.
The Ridge would come
to a standstill.
So. if there be any man
lives east of the Mill Road
who could see his way
to helping me.
it would be helping her.
That'll be me. Brother Crombie.
I live near enough.
[tense music plays]
♪ ♪
Anyone else?
Aye.
I'm having a dispute
wi' my neighbor. John Coyne.
He's using my well.
taking my water.
I'd like someone
to talk to him wi' me.
- [door closes]
- I'll go with you.
Brother McClure.
Well. you're his friend.
Well. that's just as well.
but I want someone
on my behalf. then. too.
I'll go.
if it's agreeable with you.
Worshipful Master.
Aye.
Tomorrow. noon. shall we say?
I have no other plans.
♪ ♪
[glasses thud lightly on table]
- I had to come.
- I know.
You know?
We know everything.
Jamie knows
the captain doesn't mean him
immediate harm.
He won't kill your son.
Unless he has to.
Let me offer you
the same assurance.
There's nothing left for us
to do now. is there?
Actually...
I thought we might pray.
Do you know any prayers
suitable to the occasion?
[somber music plays]
Is there anything else
before we start the beer?
Yes. I'd like to say
a few words. if I may...
...about loyalty.
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
I shared with you before
about my son.
He was loyal to me.
as a father and as a commander.
to his grandmother.
who helped me raise him.
and to his king and country.
Most especially.
he was loyal unto death.
as we all must be.
Or it is not loyalty.
What brings this to mind.
Brother Cunningham?
The war is heavy
on my heart. I'll admit.
And I know we're not to speak
of politics in Lodge. but...
But since you have. so shall I.
And I will say but one thing.
a charaidean.
that is not mine own.
but a thing said
by our forefathers
some 400 years ago.
"As long as but a hundred
of us remain alive.
"never shall we.
on any conditions.
be brought under English rule."
"For it is in truth
"not for glory nor riches
"nor honors
that we are fighting...
"but for freedom.
For that alone"...
..."which no honest man
gives up
but with life itself."
♪ ♪
Bow your heads wi' me
for the closing prayer.
Brother Lindsay.
♪ ♪
Supreme Grand Master.
Ruler of Heaven and Earth.
now that we are to separate
and return to our respective
places of abode.
wilt Thou be pleased to
influence our hearts and minds
so that we may. each one of us.
practice out of the Lodge
those great moral duties
which are inculcated in it
and. with reverence. study
and obey the laws
which Thou hast given to us
in Thy Holy word.
Amen.
[all] So mote it be.
God damn it.
[tense music plays]
♪ ♪
God damn you
for a plague of rats.
Where is he?
♪ ♪
[whistles]
Any sign of those bastards
from Ninety-Six?
Not yet.
Josiah hasna come back either.
My brother
would not let you down.
Thanks. Kezzie.
Geordie Hallam. Conor MacNeil.
Lachlan Hunt.
Ewan Adair... there were more
behind us. but...
Holman Leslie.
Robert McClanahan.
William Baird. Joseph Baird.
Hiram Crombie.
and more yet behind them.
Friends and neighbors all.
Peace and harmony
they quoted just now
while lying in wait. forbye.
Draw 'em into the trees.
Mark their names
and capture those you can.
Any man in these woods
is a traitor to me.
But dinna shoot to kill.
Cunningham wants me alive.
I'll no' be the one
who brings death here tonight.
[thunder booming]
♪ ♪
The storm will be here soon.
Where are the children?
[sighs softly]
Away for the night.
And Fanny's asleep.
[Elspeth sighs]
[thunder rumbling]
What are you thinking?
Five more years.
[Claire] Sorry?
When my grandson died.
that was two years ago.
So you do believe it?
"I'll see you again
in seven years."
Five more left.
It doesn't mean that my son
will kill your husband.
It only means that your husband
will not kill him.
That must be a comfort...
to you.
♪ ♪
He only intends to take him
to Patrick Ferguson.
To be hanged.
For the sake of his own
bloody advancement.
For the sake of his king
and his honor
as an officer of that king.
Your husband is
a pardoned traitor.
He has forfeited
the grace of that pardon.
He has earned his own execution.
♪ ♪
[sighs]
We were going to pray.
weren't we?
♪ ♪
[thunder booming]
- [gun cocks]
- [gasps]
[Jamie] Don't...
say a word.
Mr. Fraser. I can...
♪ ♪
[thunder rumbling]
[Cunningham] Mr. Fraser.
Let's talk this through.
shall we?
Man-to-man.
I'm going to put my gun down.
♪ ♪
Not much to talk about...
save you leaving my land.
On foot or in a box
is up to you.
Oh. you forget. Mr. Fraser.
I have a box waiting for me.
But not for five more years.
[chuckles]
[suspenseful music plays]
♪ ♪
Aah!
Agh!
♪ ♪
[thunder booms]
[choking]
♪ ♪
[gun cocks]
How'd you know it was coming?
It's my ridge.
I ken everything.
I ken you mean to hand me over
to Ferguson to be hanged.
That was the plan.
But plans change.
Aye.
That's why they call them plans.
Ferguson will take you
alive or dead.
At this point...
I'm thinking dead
might save me a lot of bother.
[thunder rumbles]
♪ ♪
I never wanted it
to come to this. Mr. Fraser.
[thunder rumbles]
[gunshot]
[body thuds]
[breathing heavily]
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
My father has written
to his counterpart
at the Continental camp.
With any luck. we'll hear
something in a day or two.
No.
The battle is over.
And sitting here waiting
for news is unbearable.
I need to see what's happening
for myself.
I'm going to the camp.
[tense music plays]
If you are determined to go...
then I will accompany you...
at first light.
♪ ♪
[thunder rumbling]
[door opens]
♪ ♪
- [person grunts]
- [Buck] We need you. Claire.
Left. left. there you go.
Right.
[Tom and Buck grunting]
- Charlie.
- [Charlie groaning]
- Where's Jamie?
- [Jamie] Here. Sassenach.
Are you hurt?
I'll bide. Just him.
He's been shot in the back.
"Shot in the back"?
You coward!
[Buck] Restrain yourself.
He had no intention
of killing you.
You can ask your son
what his intentions were.
Let me see.
Looks like your clothes
took the worst of it.
Here.
Go find Fanny-
tell her to clean the wound
and put a compress on it.
You two.
I'm going to need your help.
Mr. Cunningham.
where were you shot?
High or low?
Low.
Wiggle your fingers.
- [grunting softly]
- All right. Good.
Now move your feet.
[Cunningham wheezing]
Move your feet. Charlie.
up and down.
I am. Mother!
Ah!
There it is. between L3 and L4.
Buck. Tom. help me roll him.
Towards you.
Okay. slowly.
- [Cunningham shouts in pain]
- [all groan]
Okay. hold him steady.
[Cunningham breathing heavily]
Mr. Fraser has a bad cut
across his chest.
It's just missed
his left nipple.
Well. that's a bit of good news.
- Did you...
- I put a compress on it.
How fast is the blood
soaking through?
Not too fast.
He wants whisky.
Is that all right?
Tell him if he can stand up
and count to thirty.
then he can have whisky.
If not. give him honey water
and make him lie down.
no matter what he says.
I've already given him
honey water.
Should the captain
have some. too?
- [Cunningham groans]
- Yes. please.
Thank you.
[Cunningham wheezes]
Will he live?
Tell me the truth.
I think so.
But he might not be
able to walk.
The ball didn't go
all the way through.
so it might heal.
Or it might not.
[breathing shakily]
I'm going to remove the ball.
dress the wound.
[somber music plays]
You should stay.
It won't take long.
and I'll need your help.
♪ ♪
Hold him steady.
Aah! Aah!
[insects chirping]
[bird calling in distance]
[footsteps approaching]
Trevor is sleeping?
The surcease of cannon fire
is a boon to mothers.
And to soldiers.
Yes.
Them too.
[insects continue chirping]
It's nice to see you.
You've been rather busy today. understandably.
I should like to see you
in my beetle waistcoat again.
I believe there are
certain species I had not...
touched on taxonomically...
the fiery searcher...
- the twice-stabbed lady.
- Amaranthus. I...
...I must confess...
I've developed
a particular species
of feeling for you.
[laughing]
That was a terrible attempt
at cleverness. I must say.
- [laughs]
- I shan't try it again.
- On my honor.
- [laughs]
But you were saying?
We both know how quickly
one can lose someone in war.
I don't want things
to remain unsaid between us.
I think
you may have been jesting
when you suggested it. but...
I have been thinking
about your idea.
Remind me...
what was my idea?
That we should get married.
And if we should have a son.
I could give him my title.
I wasn't jesting.
[soft music plays]
But we needn't get
married either.
Not straightaway.
We could...
...give it a go.
And if the result is male...
I don't believe
I'm having this conversation.
[both chuckle]
A-and what the devil
do you propose to do
if this result. as you
so casually put it. is female?
Well. I suppose
you'd have to marry me
in either case. eventually.
Of course. I might not get
with child at all.
But we might just enjoy the try.
♪ ♪
It cannot be like this.
No.
No. I suppose it can't.
♪ ♪
On your honor... as you say.
We will get married.
That is what we'll do.
♪ ♪
[Amaranthus moaning]
I accept.
♪ ♪
[Roger] Forasmuch as it hath
pleased God Almighty
to take unto Himself
the souls of these.
our brothers.
we therefore commit
their bodies to the ground.
Earth to earth.
ashes to ashes. dust to dust.
In sure and certain hope
of Resurrection
to eternal life through
our Lord. Jesus Christ.
Amen.
[insect buzzing. person coughs]
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
Please excuse me.
[Brianna. crying] Oh. my God.
[Roger grunts]
[Brianna crying]
♪ ♪
Oh. my God.
Are you-are you hurt?
Are you in pain?
I'm fine.
Minor explosion.
You scared the shit
out of me. Roger.
- I thought you were dead.
- I know. I know.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
I wanted to...
I couldn't leave.
[Denzell] How is thy knee?
Not bad. Doctor.
How's Christophe?
He's doing well.
Uh. Bree...
I want you to meet
Dr. Denzell Hunter.
That's right.
that Denzell Hunter.
Rachel's brother.
We just figured it out
this morning.
I'm so glad to meet you.
And I thee.
Though I wish it were
in better circumstances.
I know thy mother
and father well.
He knows me. too.
William.
William?
[William]
I think I shall stay a while.
I don't imagine
I'd see Denzell again.
Now that I have...
You know. for a Loyalist.
you sure have
a lot of Rebel friends.
You should go back to Savannah.
My father's letter will still
grant you safe passage.
Get him cleaned up and fed
and drunk.
[chuckles]
[horse neighs. cart rattling]
When did you last see
your sister?
Not since Monmouth.
But she's written to me.
She had a baby.
I think she is very happy.
William. I know
there was once some trouble
- between thee and Ian. but...
- I'm very glad for them.
Truly.
I won't be a moment.
I have a list of casualties
for General Bleeker.
[sighs]
Thank you. Doctor.
A sad day. indeed.
[dramatic music plays]
How in God's name?
- Oh. this is...
- Dr. Hunter...
would you give me a moment
with an old friend?
I- Of course.
I'll just be over there.
♪ ♪
Come inside.
[chuckles]
♪ ♪
Ben.
Oh.
[soft music plays]
♪ ♪
Hello. cousin.
You son of a bitch.
♪ ♪
[indistinct chatter]
How's the eye?
[silverware clanging]
[chatter continues]
Why was Elspeth here?
She came to pray with me.
believe it or not.
[sighs]
She was as scared as I was.
Was sure it was you
in that stretcher.
It almost was.
Thought I was done for.
Didna realize
it was Buck's gun I heard
until I saw Cunningham fall.
What happened
to Cunningham's other men?
Hmm.
Ye've naught to fear from them.
They were deprived
of their weapons and sent home
feeling a good deal less brave
about themselves.
Do you have a piece of paper?
Of course.
Why?
Write down these names.
Geordie Hallam.
Conor MacNeil.
Lachlan Hunt. Holman Leslie.
Hiram Crombie.
Why do you need me
to write the list
when you obviously remember
who they are?
The list isna for me.
It's for you.
If I'm not around.
you need to get rid of them.
"Get rid of them"?
I dinna intend
to keep them on as tenants.
Tried to kill me...
or send me away to be hanged.
'Tis no better.
Someone's coming.
Ten men at least. maybe more.
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
[sighs]
Hallo the house!
♪ ♪
Sorry we're late.
Glad you're here.
♪ ♪
I didn't think you'd come.
Well...
almost didn't.
There's only so many times
a man can have his help rebuffed
before he starts
feeling unhelpful.
Then again.
I can't generally resist
a fight with some Tories.
[chuckles]
We should talk.
I have heard good things
about your whisky.
Why don't you pour me some?
[dramatic music plays]
♪ ♪
Send for the devil.
the devil appears.
♪ ♪